Welcome everyone.
Now that we understand the theory behind convolution on neural networks let's go ahead and begin training
one on the very famous m this data set in part one of the series of lectures we're going to focus on
just reading in the data and also making sure that we understand the one hot encoding of the labels.
Let's get started.
All right.
Here I am at a notebook I've already imported pansies pizza.
No pies and MP as well as my polyp and map polyp in line to load up the M this dataset.
It's actually built into carriers so we can say from tensor flow carries that datasets go ahead and
import amnesty.
And then what we're going to be able to do is actually load in the data.
So m this now has a load data method call.
And essentially what this does is just load the m this data set for us.
So we're going to use some tuple unpacking here because it's actually already organized for us in both
x train y train and x test White test.
We don't need to do any splits ourselves.
So we'll say X train y train and then create another tuple for X test y test okay.
So then go ahead and load in that data and then we're going to do is especially explaining the shapes
of the data and how to visualize the data.
So if I take a look at X train.
It looks like just a bunch of values here.
So let's check out the shape of it.
You'll notice the X train is essentially sixty thousand images and each image is 28 by 28 pixels.
Let's go ahead and grab a single image from this.
So it's a single image and we'll say X train 0 and grabbed the very first item.
So if I take a look at a single image now its shape is 28 by 28.
And here actually have all the raw values from that single image.
So luckily if I have if I have a two dimensional image map plot lib has something called M show which
can display these two dimensional array objects.
So we say peel t the M show and I get back what is essentially the number five.
Now keep in mind that the m this dataset is grayscale so it only goes from zero to the max value of
that 255.
So somewhere around here we can see kind of these lighter points or darker points are labeled fifty
five or close to it something that sometimes confuses students is they see back a color image here and
they're wondering hey I thought this dataset wasn't grayscale Why do I see purples and yellows et cetera.
Well technically you can choose any color mapping to display this image.
And if you recall from our data visualization crash course we talked about the color maps that are available
in map what lit the default one is this very this one that goes from purple to blue to green to yellow
and technically what Matt Portillo is doing is just setting zero at this purple point and then one at
or 255 actually at this yellow point and then all the values are sequenced in between and you could
replace this with any color mapping you wanted to and you could come down here and replace it with grays
or replace it with kind of a black to white.
So there's gray which is black to white or grays which is kind of confusing because this one is with
it.
E and then it goes from white to black.
So technically you could display this in any sort of color mapping you want.
The main thing to just be aware of right now is the values go from zero to two hundred and fifty five
which is typical of images.
Basically each color channel usually gets a value between 0 to 255.
OK.
So we're able to show the data of a single image.
Now let's explore the actual labels themselves.
If we take a look at white train you'll notice that the array right now the very first value is five
which corresponds to the very first value in our X training set.
So we were correct in assuming that this was a five here.
But what's going to happen is right now our labels are just literally the number they represent.
And what's going to happen here is if we were to pass in our training the labels as such the network
would assume it was some sort of continuous value and it would try to predict stuff like five point
five or five point six et cetera.
And really these are categories.
So five is not a continuous value but it's actually the category five.
So really what we're doing here is a classification problem and we need to make sure that our network
understands that as discussed earlier in the artificial neural network section we talked about the theory
behind multi class classification problems and what we need to do is we need to one hot encode this
and locally tense flow actually has utilities for this.
We can say from tensor flow doctors that utilize import to categorical.
We'll go ahead and run that.
And then what we're going to do is if we take a look at the shape of Y train it just says sixty thousand
because there's essentially 60000 labeled numbers there.
But we need to do is we need to transform this to one hot encoding so that each of these numbers ends
up one hot encoding to represent a category.
So what we'll do here is we'll say why example too categorical and if we say then why train and then
see the shape of why example it has now automatically with this two categorical function call which
we just adhere essentially converts a class vector of integers to a binary class matrix.
So it's now one hot and cold this so that if I actually take a look at why example is this super large
array.
But notice now if I take a look at the very first item notice what happens here.
An index position 5 it's now 1 essentially indicating that this belongs to your class number 5.
So it goes 0 1 2 3 4 and 5.
So it's transform this 5 into this entire row.
So that's why we have now sixty thousand by ten across everything.
So what we're going to do is we'll convert both the test labels and the training labels into categorical
labels so say white cat test is equal to two categorical why test.
Now if you do shift type here you'll notice another possible parameter we can pass in is the number
of classes.
Now I didn't pass in the number of classes when I first called to categorical because two categorical
is actually able to infer the number of classes and the way it does this is simply by checking what's
the number of unique items within this labeled dataset.
So in this case the numbers are 0 through 9.
So there's 10 possible numbers so 10 unique actual categories.
So that's why I'd assume there was 10 here.
Now there may be a rare case where for some reason you're missing an instance of a particular class.
If that happens to be the case you can always just make sure the number of classes are what you expect
by manually inputting the number of classes.
And this case is equal to 10 and we'll go ahead and the same for train so we'll say why train and we
can manually specify the number of classes.
Now either way it should work given the fact that both our test set and our training set actually contain
instances of all possible classes.
So we'll go ahead and run that as well.
And in general to actually have a well suited machine learning dataset there should be instances of
each class within both the test and the train.
And if that's not the case that's usually indicative of a problem with your actual dataset.
OK now it's time to normalise the training data.
Recall that our training data is just image data.
So if I take a look at that single image again my values go from 0 to 255.
So if I check the actual Max here it's two hundred fifty five and the minimum value is zero.
And to make sure I don't run into any gradient problems these should be scale between 0 and 1.
There's a couple of different approaches we could take we could take a classic approach of from S.K.
learn that pre processing importing that min max scalar and then running it on both the test set and
the training set and recall when we've been using that min max scalar object or any scalar from psychic
learn we fit to the training data and then transform on the test data.
However I keep mentioning that because we only fit on the training data because I don't want to assume
prior knowledge of my test data but we have a special case here because we're dealing with images and
I can make the assumption that the future images that I'm going to feed into this model that it hasn't
seen yet should be scaled as just normal images that go from the range of 0 to 255.
So an easy way to just instantly keep all the values between zero and one is to simply say X train is
equal to x train divided by two fifty five and then I can perform the same function here on X test and
say X test is equal to x test divided by 255.
And the reason again I can do that is because I know that feature images just by the way they're constructed
with red green blue channels should always have values green 0 and 255.
So my scaling will essentially not change the features are essentially known both right now and for
future images.
And now if I take a look at a scaled image so let's go ahead as a scaled image is equal to x train at
zero.
Take a look at the scaled image now and you'll notice all the values essentially go from zero up to
1 and that's going to work much better with our actual network.
And if we take a look at the max value it's 1 now.
And keep in mind that if you say peel team show since the ratio of everything is still the same.
The scaled image should look pretty much exactly the same before.
OK so the last step for our data processing is to reshape the data right now if we take a look at the
shape of our training data it's sixty thousand by twenty eight by twenty eight.
So this is correct for a convolution on your own network but we need to add one more dimension to let
the network know that we're dealing with a single RG B channel.
Essentially the images are in black and white so we have just a single image colour channel from 0 to
1.
In our case and before the actual normalization it was 0 to 255 in the next series of lectures when
we deal of color images.
We'll make sure to specify this as a dimension of 3 1 4 red 1 for green and 1 for blue.
So all we're going to do here is we're going to say X train is equal to x train.
Make sure I follow my same convention and say reshape sixty thousand twenty eight by twenty eight comma
and then we're going to add one.
So essentially what we have here is d batch size.
In this case the batches all the images.
So really it's just all images essentially how big is this batch.
So the batch size.
And then we have the width by height.
By color channels in our case we only have one colour channel because these images are essentially in
black and white.
So we run this and since sixty thousand times twenty eight times twenty eight times one is the same
as sixty thousand times twenty eight times 28.
There's no issues with me reshaping this by adding in this other kind of blank colour channel or just
a single instance of the colour channel and we'll do the same thing for X test x test is equal to x
test and we reshape this to be ten thousand and you can confirm that that's the right number by just
checking the current shape of accessed.
So there's 10000 images in the test set.
Of course there are also twenty eight by twenty eight and they're also in grayscale.
OK so that's actually it for data pre processing when we're dealing with real image data such as PND
and JPEG files which we'll do later on in this section of the course.
There's going to be a little bit more involvement as far as data pre processing scaling and actually
performing transformations on the dataset but luckily for us this dataset is essentially specifically
designed for learning about compositional neural networks.
So we have everything set up as far as that data processing and coming up next we're going to do is
we'll discuss actually training and creating the model.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.